
p &lt;t 

CL 




CONTENTS 



PAGE 

THE PROEM: BY THE CARPENTER . . 3 

I. " FOX-IN-THE-MORNING " .... 11 

II. THE LOTUS AND THE BOTTLE . . 27 

III. SMITH ........... 48 

IV. CAUGHT .......... 69 

V. CUPID S EXILE NUMBER Two . . 91 

VI. THE PHONOGRAPH AND THE GRAFT 102 

VII. MONEY MAZE ........ 126 

VIH. THE ADMIRAL ........ 144 

IX. THE FLAG PARAMOUNT ..... 159 

X. THE SHAMROCK AND THE PALM . . 177 

XI. THE REMNANTS OF THE CODE . . 208 

XII. SHOES ........... 225 

XIII. SHIPS ........... 242 

XIV. MASTERS OF ARTS ...... 257 

V. DICKY ........... 285 

^vvl. ROUGE ET NOIR ....... 307 

Two RECALLS ........ 324 

THE VITAGRAPHOSCOPE . , 339 



256981 



CABBAGES AND KINGS 



* The time has come," the Walrus said, 

" To talk of many things ; 
Of shoes and ships and sealing-wax, 

And cabbages and kings." 

THE WALRUS AND THE CARPENTER 



CABBAGES AND KINGS 



THE PROEM: 

By the Carpenter 



1 HEY will tell you in Anchuria, that President 
Miraflores, of that volatile republic, died by his own 
hand in the coast town of Coralio; that he had 
reached thus far in flight from the inconveniences of 
an imminent revolution ; and that one hundred thou 
sand dollars, government funds, which he carried 
with him in an American leather valise as a souvenir 
of his tempestuous administration, was never after 
ward recovered. 

For a real, a boy will show you his grave. It is 
back of the town near a little bridge that spans a 
mangrove swan: p. A plain slab of wood stands at 
its head. Soi ic one has burned upon the headstone 
with a hot ire n this inscription : 



4 Cabbages and Kings 

RAMON ANGEL DE LAS CRUZES 

Y MIRAFLORES 
PRESIDENTE DE LA REPUBLICA 

DE ANCHURIA 
QUE SEA SU JTJEZ DIGS 

It is characteristic of this buoyant people that they 
pursue no man beyond the grave. " Let God be his 
judge ! " Even with the hundred thousand unfound, 
though greatly coveted, the hue and cry went no fur 
ther than that. 

To the stranger or the guest the people of Coralio 
will relate the story of the tragic end of their former 
president; how he strove to escape from the country 
with the public funds and also with Dona Isabel 
Guilbert, the young American opera singer; and how, 
being apprehended by members of the opposing polit 
ical party in Coralio, he shot himself through the 
head rather than give up the funds, and, in conse 
quence, the Senorita Guilbert. They will relate 
further that Dona Isabel, her adventurous bark of 
fortune shoaled by the simultaneous loss of her dis 
tinguished admirer and the souvenL* hundred thou 
sand, dropped anchor on this stagnar/ coast, await 
ing a rising tide. 



The Proem 5 

They say, in Coralio, that she found a prompt and 
prosperous tide in the form of Frank Goodwin, an 
American resident of the town, an investor who had 
grown wealthy by dealing in the products of the coun 
try a banana king, a rubber prince, a sarsaparilla, 
indigo, and mahogany baron. The Senorita Guil- 
bert, you will be told, married Senor Goodwin one 
month after the president s death, thus, in the very 
moment when Fortune had ceased to smile, wresting 
from her a gift greater than the prize withdrawn. 

Of the American, Don Frank Goodwin, and of his 
wife the natives have nothing but good to say. Don 
Frank has lived among them for years, and has com 
pelled their respect. His lady is easily queen of what 
social life the sober coast affords. The wife of the 
governor of the district, herself, who was of the proud 
Castilian family of Monteleon y Dolorosa de los 
Santos y Mendez, feels honoured to unfold her nap 
kin with olive-hued, ringed hands at the table of 
Senora Goodwin. Were you to refer (with your 
northern prejudices) to the vivacious past of Mrs. 
Goodwin when her audacious and gleeful abandon 
in light opera captured the mature president s fancy, 



6 Cabbages and Kings 

or to her share in that statesman s downfall and mal 
feasance, the Latin shrug of the shoulder would be 
your only answer and rebuttal. What prejudices 
there were in Coralio concerning Senora Goodwin 
seemed now to be in her favour, whatever they had 
been in the past. 

It would seem that the story is ended, instead of 
begun; that the close of a tragedy and the climax of 
a romance have covered the ground of interest; but, 
to the more curious reader it shall be some slight in 
struction to trace the close threads that underlie the&gt; 
ingenuous web of circumstances. 

The headpiece bearing the name of President 
Miraflores is daily scrubbed with soap-bark and 
sand. An old half-breed Indian tends the grave with 
fidelity and the dawdling minuteness of inherited 
sloth. He chops down the weeds and ever-springing 
grass with his machete, he plucks ants and scorpions 
and beetles from it with his horny fingers, and 
sprinkles its turf with water from the plaza fountain. 
There is no grave anywhere so well kept and ordered. 

Only by following out the underlying threads will 
it be made clear why the old Indian, Galvez, is 



The Proem 7 

secretly paid to keep green the grave of President 
Miraflores by one who never saw that unfortunate 
statesman in life or in death, and why that one was 
wont to walk in the twilight, casting from a distance 
looks of gentle sadness upon that unhonoured mound. 

Elsewhere than at Coralio one learns of the im 
petuous career of Isabel Guilbert. New Orleans 
gave her birth and the mingled French and Spanish 
Creole nature that tinctured her life with such tur 
bulence and warmth. She had little education, but 
a knowledge of men and motives that seemed to have 
come by instinct. Far beyond the common woman 
was she endowed with intrepid rashness, with a love 
for the pursuit of adventure to the brink of danger, 
and with desire for the pleasures of life. Her spirit 
was one to chafe under any curb; she was Eve after 
the fall, but before the bitterness of it was felt. She 
wore life as a rose in her bosom. 

Of the legion of men who had been at her feet 
it was said that but one was so fortunate as to engage 
her fancy. To President Miraflores, the brilliant 
but unstable ruler of Anchuria, she yielded the key 
to her resolute heart. How, then, do we find her (as 



8 Cabbages and Kings 

the Coralians would have told you) the wife of Frank 
Goodwin, and happily living a life of dull and dreamy 
inaction ? 

The underlying threads reach far, stretching across 
the sea. Following them out it will be made plain 
why "Shorty" O Day, of the Columbia Detective 
Agency, resigned his position. And, for a lighter 
pastime, it sh,all be a duty and a pleasing sport to 
wander with Momus beneath the tropic stars where 
Melpomene once stalked austere. Now to cause 
laughter to echo from those lavish jungles and 
frowning crags where formerly rang the cries of 
pirates victims ; to lay aside pike and cutlass and 
attack with quip and jollity; to draw one saving titter 
of mirth from the rusty casque of Romance this 
were pleasant to do in the shade of the lemon-trees 
on that coast that is curved like lips set for smiling. 

For there are yet tales of the Spanish Main. That 
segment of continent washed by the tempestuous Ca 
ribbean, and presenting to the sea a formidable border 
of tropical jungle topped by the overweening Cordil 
leras, is still begirt by mystery and romance. In past 
times buccaneers and revolutionists roused the echoes 



The Proem 9 

of its cliffs, aud the condor wheeled perpetually above 
where, in the green groves, they made food for him 
with their matchlocks and toledos. Taken and re 
taken by sea rovers, by adverse powers and by sudden 
uprising of rebellious factions, the historic 300 miles 
of adventurous coast has scarcely known for hun 
dreds of years whom rightly to call its master. Pi- 
zarro, Balboa, Sir Francis Drake, and Bolivar did 
what they couJd to make it a part of Christendom. 
Sir John Morgan &gt; Lafitte and other eminent swash 
bucklers bombarded and pounded it in the name of 
Abaddon. 

The game still goes on. The guns of the rovers 
are silenced ; bul th*e tintype man, the enlarged photo 
graph brigand, tho kodaking tourist and the scouts of 
the gentle brigade of fakirs have found it out, and 
carry on the work The hucksters of Germany, 
France, and Sicily new bag its small change across 
their counters. Gentlemen adventurers throng the 
waiting-rooms of its rulers wi A proposals for railways 
and concessions. The little opfra-bouffe nations play 
at government and intrigue until some day a big:, silent 
gunboat glides into the offing and Wires then, not to 



10 Cabbages and Kings 

break their toys. And with these changes comes 
also the small adventurer, with empty pockets to fill, 
light of heart, busy-brained the modern fairy 
prince, bearing an alarm clock with which, more 
surely than by the sentimental kiss, to awaken the 
beautiful tropics from their centuries sleep. Gene 
rally he wears a shamrock, which he matches pride- 
fully against the extravagant palms; and it is he 
who has driven Melpomene to the wings, and set 
Comedy to dancing before the footlights of the South 
ern Cross. 

So, there is a little tale to tell of many things. Per 
haps to the promiscuous ear of the Walrus it shall 
come with most avail; for in it there are indeed 
shoes and ships and sealing-wax and cabbage-palms 
and presidents instead of kings. 

Add to these a little love and counterplotting, and 
scatter everywhere throughout the maze a trail of 
tropical dollars dollars warmed no more by the 
torrid sun than by the hot palms of the scouts of For 
tune and, after all, here seems to be Life, itself, 
with talk enough to weary the most garrulous of 
Walruses. 



CHAPTER ONE 

" Fox-in-the-Morning " 

V^/ORALIO reclined, in the mid-day heat, like some 
vacuous beauty lounging in a guarded harem. The 
town lay at the sea s edge on a strip of alluvial coast. 
It was set like a little pearl in an emerald band. Be 
hind it, and seeming almost to topple, imminent, 
above it, rose the sea-following range of the Cordil 
leras. In front the sea was spread, a smiling jailer, 
but even more incorruptible than the frowning moun 
tains. The waves swished along the smooth beach; 
the parrots screamed in the orange and ceiba-trees; 
the palms waved their limber fronds foolishly like 
an awkward chorus at the prima donna s cue to enter. 
Suddenly the town was full of excitement. A 
native boy dashed down a grass-grown street, shriek* 



12 Cabbages and Kings 

ing: " Busca el SeHor Goodwin. Ha venido un 

teUgrajo por el!" 

The word passed quickly. Telegrams do not often 
come to anyone in Coralio. The cry for Senor Good 
win was taken up by a dozen officious voices. The 
main street running parallel to the beach became pop 
ulated with those who desired to expedite the delivery 
of the despatch. Knots of women with complexions 
varying from palest olive to deepest brown gath 
ered at street corners and plaintively carolled : " Un 
telfyrafo por Senor Goodwin!" The comandante, 
Don Senor el Coronel Encarnaci6n Rios, who was 
loyal to the Ins and suspected Goodwin s devotion 
to the Outs, hissed : " Aha ! " and wrote in his secret 
memorandum book the accusive fact that Senor 
Goodwin had on that momentous date received a 
telegram. 

In the midst of the hullabaloo a man stepped to 
the door of a small wooden building and looked out. 
Above the door was a sign that read "Keogh and 
Clancy" a nomenclature that seemed not to be in 
digenous to that tropical soil. The man in the door 
was Billy Keogh, scout of fortune and progress and 



Fox-in-the- Morning 13 

latter-day rover of the Spanish Main. Tintypes and 
photographs were the weapons with which Keogh 
and Clancy were at that time assailing the helpless 
shores. Outside the shop were set two large frames 
filled with specimens of their art and skill. 

Keogh leaned in the doorway, his bold and humor 
ous countenance wearing a look of interest at the 
unusual influx of life and sound into the street. When 
the meaning of the disturbance became clear to him 
he placed a hand beside his mouth and shouted: 
" Hey ! Frank ! " in such a robustious voice that the 
feeble clamour of the natives was drowned and 
silenced. 

Fifty yards away, on the seaward side of the street, 
stood the abode of the consul for the United States. 
Out from the door of this building tumbled Goodwin 
at the call. He had been smoking with Willard Ged- 
die, the consul, on the back porch of the consulate, 
which was conceded to be the coolest spot in Coralio. 

" Hurry up," shouted Keogh. " There s a riot in 
town on account of a telegram that s come for you. 
You want to be careful about these things, my boy. 
It won t do to trifle with the feelings of the public 



14 Cabbages and Kings 

this way. You ll be getting a pink note some day 
with violet scent on it; and then the country ll be 
steeped in the throes of a revolution." 

Goodwin had strolled up the street and met the 
boy with the message. The ox-eyed women gazed 
at him with shy admiration, for his type drew them. 
He was big, blonde, and jauntily dressed in white 
linen, with buckskin zapatos. His manner was 
courtly, with a sort of kindly truculence in it, tem 
pered by a merciful eye. When the telegram had 
been delivered, and the bearer of it dismissed with a 
gratuity, the relieved populace returned to the con 
tiguities of shade from which curiosity had drawn 
it the women to their baking in the mud ovens 
under the orange-trees, or to the interminable comb 
ing of their long, straight hair; the men to their 
cigarettes and gossip in the cantinas. 

Goodwin sat on Keogh s doorstep, and read his 
telegram. It was from Bob Englehart, an American, 
who lived in San Mateo, the capital city of Anchuria, 
eighty miles in the interior. Englehart was a gold 
miner, an ardent revolutionist and "good people." 
That he was a man of resource and imagination was 



Fox-in-the- Morning 15 

proven by the telegram he had sent. It had been his 
task to send a confidential message to his friend in 
Coralio. This could not have been accomplished in 
either Spanish or English, for the eye politic in An- 
churia was an active one. The Ins and the Outs 
were perpetually on their guard. But Englehart 
was a diplomatist. There existed but one code upon 
which he might make requisition with promise of 
safety the great and potent code of Slang. So, 
here is the message that slipped, unconstrued, 
through the fingers of curious officials, and came to 
the eye of Goodwin : 

"His Nibs skedaddled yesterday per jack-rabbit 
line with all the coin in the kitty and the bundle of 
muslin he s spoony about. The boodle is six figures 
short. Our crowd in good shape, but we need the 
spondulicks. You collar it. The main guy and the 
dry goods are headed for the briny. You know 
what to do. BOB." 

This screed, remarkable as it was, had no mystery 
for Goodwin. He was the most successful of the 
small advance-guard of speculative Americans that 
had invaded Anchuria, and he had not reached that 



16 Cabbages and Kings 

enviable pinnacle without having well exercised the 
arts of foresight and deduction. Ho ft.ad taken up 
political intrigue as a matter of business. He was 
acute enough to wield a certain influence among the 
leading schemers, and he was prosperous enough to 
be able to purchase the respect of the petty office 
holders. There was always a revolutionary party; 
and to it he had always allied himself; for the adhe 
rents of a new administration received the rewards 
of their labours. There was now a Liberal party 
seeking to overturn President Miraflores. If the 
wheel successfully revolved, Goodwin stood to win a 
concession to 30,000 manzanas of the finest coffee 
lands in the interior. Certain incidents in the recent 
career of President Miraflores had excited a shrewd 
suspicion in Goodwin s mind that the government 
was near a dissolution from another cause than that 
of a revolution, and now Englehart s telegram had 
come as a corroboration of his wisdom. 

The telegram, which had remained unintelligible to 
the Anchurian linguists who had applied to it in vain 
their knowledge of Spanish and elemental English, 
conveyed a stimulating piece of news to Goodwin s 



Fox-in-thc- Morning 17 

understanding. It informed him that the president 
of the republic had decamped from the capital city 
with the contents of the treasury. Furthermore, that 
he was accompanied in his flight by that winning 
adventuress Isabel Guilbert, the opera singer, whose 
troupe of performers had been entertained by the 
president at San Mateo during the past month on a 
scale less modest than that with which royal visitors 
are often content. The reference to the "jack-rab 
bit line " could mean nothing else than the mule-back 
system of transport that prevailed between Coralio 
and the capital. The hint that the "boodle" was 
" six figures short " made the condition of the national 
treasury lamentably clear. Also it was convincingly 
true that the ingoing party its way now made a 
pacific one would need the " spondulicks." Un 
less its pledges should be fulfilled, and the spoils held 
for the delectation of the victors, precarious indeed, 
would be the position of the new government. There 
fore it was exceeding necessary to "collar the main 
guy," and recapture the sinews of war and govern 
ment. 

Goodwin handed the message to Keogh. 



18 Cabbages and Kings 

"Read that, Billy," he said. "It s from Bob 
Englehart. Can you manage the cipher? " 

Keogh sat in the other half of the doorway, and 
carefully perused the telegram. 

" Tis not a cipher," he said, finally. " Tis what 
they call literature, and that s a system of language 
put in the mouths of people that they ve never been 
introduced to by writers of imagination. The maga 
zines invented it, but I never knew before that Presi 
dent Norvin Green had stamped it with the seal of 
his approval. Tis now no longer literature, but lan 
guage. The dictionaries tried, but they couldn t 
make it go for anything but dialect. Sure, now that 
the Western Union indorses it, it won t be long till 
a race of people will spring up that speaks it." 

"You re running too much to philology, Billy," 
said Goodwin. " Do you make out the meaning of 
it?" 

" Sure," replied the philosopher of Fortune. " All 
languages come easy to the man who must know em. 
I ve even failed to misunderstand an order to evacuate 
in classical Chinese when it was backed up by the 
muzzle of a breech-loader. This little literary essay I 



Fox-in-the- Morning 19 

hold in my hands means a game of Fox-in-the-Morn- 
ing. Ever play that, Frank, when you was a kid ?" 

" I think so," said Goodwin, laughing. " You join 
hands all round, and " 

"You do not," interrupted Keogh. "You ve got 
a fine sporting game mixed up in your head with * All 
Around the Rosebush. The spirit of *Fox-in-the- 
Morning is opposed to the holding of hands. I ll 
tell you how it s played. This president man and 
his companion in play, they stand up over in San 
Mateo, ready for the run, and shout: Fox-in-the- 
Morning! Me and you, standing here, we say: 
* Goose and the Gander! They say: How many 
miles is it to London town ? We say: Only a few, 
if your legs are long enough. How many comes out ? 
They say: More than you re able to catch. And 
then the game commences." 

"I catch the idea," said Goodwin. "It won t do 
to let the goose and gander slip through our fingers, 
Billy; their feathers are too valuable. Our crowd 
is prepared and able to step into the shoes of the 
government at once; but with the treasury empty 
we d stay in power about as long as a tenderfoot 



20 Cabbages and Kings 

would stick on an untamed bronco. We must play 
the fox on every foot of the coast to prevent their get 
ting out of the country." 

"By the mule-back schedule," said Keogh, "it s 
five days down from San Mateo. We ve got plenty 
of time to set our outposts. There s only three places 
on the coast where they can hope to sail from here 
and Solitas and Alazan. They re the only points 
we ll have to guard. It s as easy as a chess problem 
fox to play, and mate in three moves. Oh, goosey, 
goosey, gander, whither do you wander? By the 
blessing of the literary telegraph the boodle of this 
benighted fatherland shall be preserved to the honest 
political party that is seeking to overthrow it." 

The situation had been justly outlined by Keogh. 
The down trail from the capital was at all times a 
weary road to travel. A jiggety-joggety journey it 
was; ice-cold and hot, wet and dry. The trail 
climbed appalling mountains, wound like a rotten 
string about the brows of breathless precipices, 
plunged through chilling snow-fed streams, and wrig 
gled like a snake through sunless forests teeming with 
menacing insect and animal life. After descending 



Fox-in-the- Morning 21 

to the foothills it turned to a trident, the central prong 
ending at Alazan. Another branched off to Coralio; 
the third penetrated to Solitas. Between the sea and 
the foothills stretched the five miles breadth of allu 
vial coast. Here was the flora of the tropics in its 
rankest and most prodigal growth. Spaces here and 
there had been wrested from the jungle and planted 
with bananas and cane and orange groves. The rest 
was a riot of wild vegetation, the home of monkeys, 
tapirs, jaguars, alligators and prodigious reptiles and 
insects. Where no road was cut a serpent could 
scarcely make its way through the tangle of vines 
and creepers. Across the treacherous mangrove 
swamps few things without wings could safely pass. 
Therefore the fugitives could hope to reach the coast 
only by one of the routes named. 

" Keep the matter quiet, Billy," advised Goodwin. 
"We don t want the Ins to know that the president is 
in flight. I suppose Bob s information is something 
of a scoop in the capital as yet. Otherwise he would 
not have tried to make his message a confidential 
one; and, besides, everybody would have heard the 
news. I m going around now to see Dr. Za valla, 



22 Cabbages and Kings 

and start a man up the trail to cut the telegraph 

wire." 

As Goodwin rose, Keogh threw his hat upon the 
grass by the door and expelled a tremendous sigh. 

"What s the trouble, Billy?" asked Goodwin, 
pausing. "That s the first time I ever heard you 
sigh." 

" Tis the last," said Keogh. " With that sorrow 
ful puff of wind I resign myself to a life of praise 
worthy but harassing honesty. What are tintypes, 
if you please, to the opportunities of the great and 
hilarious class of ganders and geese? Not that I 
would be a president, Frank and the boodle he s 
got is too big for me to handle but in some ways 
I feel my conscience hurting me for addicting myself 
to photographing a nation instead of running away 
with it. Frank, did you ever see the bundle of mus 
lin that His Excellency has wrapped up and carried 
off?" 

" Isabel Guilbert ? " said Goodwin, laughing. " No, 
I never did. From what I ve heard of her, though, 
I imagine that she wouldn t stick at anything to carry 
her point. Don t get romantic, Billy. Sometimes 



F ox -in-the- Morning 23 

I begin to fear that there s Irish blood in your ances- 
try." 

"I never saw her either, * went on Keogh; "but 
they say she s got all the ladies of mythology, sculp 
ture, and fiction reduced to chromos. They say she 
can look at a man once, and he ll turn monkey and 
climb trees to pick cocoanuts for her. Think of that 
president man with Lord knows how many hundreds 
of thousands of dollars in one hand, and this muslin 
siren in the other, galloping down hill on a sym 
pathetic mule amid songbirds and flowers! And 
here is Billy Keogh, because he is virtuous, con 
demned to the unprofitable swindle of slandering the 
faces of missing links on tin for an honest li ving ! Tis 
an injustice of nature." 

"Cheer up," said Goodwin. "You are a pretty 
poor fox to be envying a gander. Maybe the en 
chanting Guilbert will take a fancy to you and your 
tintypes after we impoverish her royal escort." 

"She could do worse," reflected Keogh; "but she 
won t. Tis not a tintype gallery, but the gallery of 
the gods that she s fitted to adorn She s a very 
wicked lady, and the president man is in luck. But 



24 Cabbages and Kings 

I hear Clancy swearing in the back room for having 
to do all the work." And Keogh plunged for the 
rear of the " gallery," whistling gaily in a spontaneous 
way that belied his recent sigh over the questionable 
good luck of the flying president. 

Goodwin turned from the main street into a much 
narrower one that intersected it at a right angle. 

These side streets were covered by a growth of 
thick, rank grass, which was kept to a navigable 
shortness by the machetes of the police. Stone side 
walks, little more than a ledge in width, ran along 
the base of the mean and monotonous adobe houses. 
At the outskirts of the village these streets dwindled 
to nothing ; and here were set the palm-thatched huts 
of the Caribs and the poorer natives, and the shabby 
cabins of negroes from Jamaica and the West India 
islands. A few structures raised their heads above 
the red-tiled roofs of the one-story houses the bell 
tower of the Calaboza, the Hotel de los Estranjeros, 
the residence of the Vesuvius Fruit Company s 
agent, the store and residence of Bernard Brannigan, 
a ruined cathedral in which Columbus had once set 
foot, and, most imposing of all, the Casa Morena 



Fox-in-the- Morning 25 

the summer " White House " of the President of An- 
churia. On the principal street running along the 
beach the Broadway of Coralio were the larger 
stores, the government bodega and post-office, the 
cuartel, the rum-shops and the market place. 

On his way Goodwin passed the house of Bernard 
Brannigan. It was a modern wooden building, two 
stories in height. The ground floor was occupied 
by Brannigan s store, the upper one contained the 
living apartments. A wide, cool porch ran around 
the house half way up its outer walls. A handsome, 
vivacious girl neatly dressed in flowing white leaned 
over the railing and smiled down upon Goodwin. 
She was no darker than many an Andalusian of high 
descent; and she sparkled and glowed like a tropical 
moonlight. 

" Good evening, Miss Paula," said Goodwin, 
taking off his hat, with his ready smile. There was 
little difference in his manner whether he addressed 
women or men. Everybody in Coralio liked to re 
ceive the salutation of the big American. 

" Is there any news, Mr. Goodwin ? Please don t 
say no. Isn t it warm ? I feel just like Mariana in 



26 Cabbages and Kings 

her moated grange or was it a range ? it s hot 

enough." 

" No, there s no news to tell, I believe.," said Good 
win, with a mischievous look in his eye, " except that 
old Geddie is getting grumpier and crosser every day. 
If something doesn t happen to relieve his mind I ll 
have to quit smoking on his back porch and there s 
no other place available that is cool enough." 

"He isn t grumpy," said Paula Brannigan, im 
pulsively, " when he " 

But she ceased suddenly, and drew back with a 
deepening colour; for her mother had been a mestizo 
lady, and the Spanish blood had brought to Paula 
a certain shyness that was an adornment to the other 
half of her demonstrative nature. 



CHAPTER TWO 

The Lotus and the Bottle 



WlLLARD GEDDIE, consul for the United 
States in Coralio, was working leisurely on his yearly 
report. Goodwin, who had strolled in as he did 
daily for a smoke on the much coveted porch, had 
found him so absorbed in his work that he departed 
after roundly abusing the consul for his lack of 
hospitality. 

" I shall complain to the civil service department," 
said Goodwin ; " or is it a depa^jfment ? per 
haps it s only a theory. One gets neither civility nor 
service from you. You won t talk; and you won t 
set out anything to drink. What kind of a way is 
that of representing your government ? " 

Goodwin strolled out and across to the hotel to see 



8 Cabbages and Kings 

if he could bully the quarantine doctor into a game 
on Coralio s solitary billiard table. His plans were 
completed for the interception of the fugitives from 
the capital ; and now it was but a waiting game that 
he had to play. 

The consul was interested in his report. He was 
only twenty-four; and he had not been in Coralio 
long enough for his enthusiasm to cool in the heat 
of the tropics a paradox that may be allowed 
between Cancer and Capricorn. 

So many thousand bunches of bananas, so many 
thousand oranges and cocoanuts, so many ounces of 
gold dust, pounds of rubber, coffee, indigo and sar- 
saparilla actually, exports were twenty per cent, 
greater than for the previous year ! 

A little thrill of satisfaction ran through the consul. 
Perhaps, he thought, the State Department, upon 
reading his introduction, would notice and then 
he leaned back in his chair and laughed. He was 
getting as bad as the others. For the moment he 
had forgotten that Coralio was an insignificant town 
in an insignificant republic lying along the by-ways 
of a second-rate sea. He thought of Gregg, the quar- 



The Lotus and the Bottle ,&lt; 29 
antine doctor, who subscribed for the London Lancet, 
expecting to find it quoting his reports to the home 
Board of Health concerning the yellow fever germ. 
The consul knew that not one in fifty of his acquaint 
ances in the States had ever heard of Coralio. He 
knew that two men, at any rate, would have to read 
his report some underling in the State Department 
and a compositor in the Public Printing Office. Per 
haps the typesticker would note the increase of com 
merce in Coralio, and speak of it, over the cheese and 
beer, to a friend. 

He had just written : " Most unaccountable is 
the supineness of the large exporters in the United 
States in permitting the French and German houses 
to practically control the trade interests of this rich 
and productive country " when he heard the 
hoarse notes of a steamer s siren. 

Geddie laid down his pen and gathered his Pan 
ama hat and umbrella. By the sound he knew it to 
be the Valhalla, one of the line of fruit vessels plying 
for the Vesuvius Company. Down to ninos of five 
years, everyone in Coralio could name you each in 
coming steamer by the note of her siren. 



30 Cabbages and Kings 

The consul sauntered by a roundabout, shaded 
way to the beach. By reason of long practice he 
gauged his stroll so accurately that by the time he 
arrived on the sandy shore the boat of the customs 
officials was rowing back from the steamer, which 
had been boarded and inspected according to the 
laws of Anchuria. 

There is no harbour at Coralio. Vessels of the 
draught of the Valhalla must ride at anchor a mile 
from shore. When they take on fruit it is conveyed 
on lighters and freighter sloops. At Solitas, where 
there was a fine harbour, ships of many kinds were 
to be seen, but in the roadstead off Coralio scarcely 
any save the fruiters paused. Now and then a tramp 
coaster, or a mysterious brig from Spain, or a saucy 
French barque would hang innocently for a few days 
in the offing. Then the custom-house crew would 
become doubly vigilant and wary. At night a sloop 
or two would be making strange trips in and out 
along the shore; and in the morning the stock of 
Three-Star Hennessey, wines and drygoods in Coralio 
would be found vastly increased. It has also been 
said that the customs officials jingled more silver in 



The Lotus and the Bottle 31 

the pockets of their red-striped trousers, and that the 
record books showed no increase in import duties 
received. 

The customs boat and the Valhalla gig reached 
the shore at the same time. When they grounded 
in the shallow water there was still five yards of roll 
ing surf between them and dry sand. Then half- 
clothed Caribs dashed into the water, and brought 
in on their backs the Valhalla s purser and the little 
native officials in their cotton undershirts, blue trou 
sers with red stripes, and flapping straw hats. 

At college Geddie had been a treasure as a first- 
baseman. He now closed his umbrella, stuck it up 
right in the sand, and stooped, with his hands resting 
upon his knees. The purser, burlesquing the pitch 
er s contortions, hurled at the consul the heavy roll 
of newspapers, tied with a string, that the steamer 
always brought for him. Geddie leaped high and 
caught the roll with a sounding "thwack." The 
loungers on the beach about a third of the popula 
tion of the town laughed and applauded delight 
edly. Every week they expected to see that roll of 
papers delivered and received in that same manner, 



32 Cabbages and Kings 

and they were never disappointed. Innovations did 

not flourish in Coralio. 

The consul re-hoisted his umbrella, and walked 
back to the consulate. 

This home of a great nation s representative was a 
wooden structure of two rooms, with a native-built 
gallery of poles, bamboo and nipa palm running on 
three sides of it. One room was the official apart 
ment, furnished chastely with a flat-top desk, a ham 
mock, and three uncomfortable cane-seated chairs. 
Engravings of the first and latest president of the 
country represented hung against the wall. The 
other room was the consul s living apartment. 

It was eleven o clock when he returned from the 
beach, and therefore breakfast time. Chanca, the 
Carib woman who cooked for him, was just serving 
the meal on the side of the gallery facing the sea 
a spot famous as the coolest in Coralio. The break 
fast consisted of shark s fin soup, stew of land crabs, 
breadfruit, a broiled iguana steak, aguacates, a 
freshly cut pineapple, claret and coffee. 

Geddie took his seat, and unrolled with luxurious 
laziness his bundle of newspapers. Here in Coralio 



The Lotus and the Bottle 33 

for two days or longer he would read of goings-on in 
the world very much as we of the world read those 
whimsical contributions to inexact science that as 
sume to portray the doings of the Martians. After 
he had finished with the papers they would be sent 
on the rounds of the other English-speaking resi 
dents of the town. 

The paper that came first to his hand was one of 
those bulky mattresses of printed stuff upon which 
the readers of certain New York journals are sup 
posed to take their Sabbath literary nap. Opening 
this the consul rested it upon the table, supporting its 
weight with the aid of the back of a chair. Then he 
partook of his meal deliberately, turning the leaves 
from time to time and glancing half idly at the con 
tents. 

Presently he was struck by something familiar to 
him in a picture a half -page, badly printed repro 
duction of a photograph of a vessel. Languidly in 
terested, he leaned for a nearer scrutiny and a view of 
the florid headlines of the column next to the picture. 

Yes; he was not mistaken. The engraving was 
of the eight-hundred-ton yacht Idalia, belonging to 



34 Cabbages and Kings 

"that prince of good fellows, Midas of the money 

market, and society s pink of perfection, J. Ward 

Tolliver." 

Slowly sipping his black coffee, Geddie read the 
column of print. Following a listed statement of 
Mr. Tolliver s real estate and bonds, came a descrip 
tion of the yacht s furnishings, and then the grain of 
news no bigger than a mustard seed. Mr. Tolliver, 
with a party of favoured guests, would sail the next 
day on a six weeks cruise along the Central American 
and South American coasts and among the Bahama 
Islands. Among the guests were Mrs. Cumberland 
Payne and Miss Ida Payne, of Norfolk. 

The writer, with the fatuous presumption that was 
demanded of him by his readers, had concocted a 
romance suited to their palates. He bracketed the 
names of Miss Payne and Mr. Tolliver until he had 
well-nigh read the marriage ceremony over them. 
He played coyly and insinuatingly upon the strings 
of "on dit" and "Madame Rumour" and "a little 
bird " and " no one would be surprised," and ended 
with congratulations. 

Geddie, having finished his breakfast, took his pa- 



The Lotus and the Bottle 35 

pers to the edge of the gallery, and sat there in his 
favourite steamer chair with his feet on the bamboo 
railing. He lighted a cigar, and looked out upon the 
sea. He felt a glow of satisfaction at finding he was 
so little disturbed by what he had read. He told 
himself that he had conquered the distress that had 
sent him, a voluntary exile, to this far land of the 
lotus. He could never forget Ida, of course; but 
there was no longer any pain in thinking about her. 
When they had had that misunderstanding and quar 
rel he had impulsively sought this consulship, with 
the desire to retaliate upon her by detaching himself 
from her world and presence. He had succeeded 
thoroughly in that. During the twelve months of his 
life in Goralio no word had passed between them, 
though he had sometimes heard of her through the 
dilatory correspondence with the few friends to 
whom he still wrote. Still he could not repress a lit 
tle thrill of satisfaction at knowing that she had not 
yet married Tolliver or anyone else. But evidently 
Tolliver had not yet abandoned hope. 

Well, it made no difference to him now. He had 
eaten of the lotus. He was happy and content in 



36 Cabbages and Kings 

this land of perpetual afternoon. Those old days of 
life in the States seemed like an irritating dream. 
He hoped Ida would be as happy as he was The 
climate as balmy as that of distant Avalon; the 
fetterless, idyllic round of enchanted days; the life 
among this indolent, romantic people a lif e full of 
music, flowers, and low laughter; the influence of the 
imminent sea and mountains, and the many shapes 
of love and magic and beauty that bloomed in the 
white tropic nights with all he was more than 
content. Also, there was Paula Brannigan. 

Geddie intended to marry Paula if, of course, 
she would consent; but he felt rather sure that she 
would do that. Somehow, he kept postponing his 
proposal. Several times he had been quite near to 
it; but a mysterious something always held him back. 
Perhaps it was only the unconscious, instinctive con 
viction that the act would sever the last tie that bound 
him to his old world. 

He could be very happy with Paula. Few of the 
native girls could be compared with her. She had 
attended a convent school in New Orleans for two 
years; and when she chose to display her accom- 



The Lotus and the Bottle 37 

plishments no one could detect any difference be 
tween her and the girls of Norfolk and Manhattan. 
But it was delicious to see her at home dressed, as 
she sometimes was, in the native costume, with bare 
shoulders and flowing sleeves. 

Bernard Brannigan was the great merchant of 
Coralio. Besides his store, he maintained a train of 
pack mules, and carried on a lively trade with the 
interior towns and villages. He had married a na 
tive lady of high Castilian descent, but with a tinge 
of Indian brown showing through her olive cheek. 
The union of the Irish and the Spanish had produced, 
as it so often has, an offshoot of rare beauty and vari 
ety. They were very excellent people indeed, and 
the upper story of their house was ready to be placed 
at the service of Geddie and Paula as soon as he 
should make up his mind to speak about it. 

By the time two hours were whiled away the consul 
tired of reading. The papers lay scattered about 
him on the gallery. Reclining there, he gazed dream 
ily out upon an Eden. A clump of banana plants 
interposed their broad shields between him and the 
gun. The gentle slope from the consulate to the sea 



38 Cabbages and Kings 

was covered with the dark-green foliage of lemon- 
trees and orange-trees just bursting into bloom. A 
lagoon pierced the land like a dark, jagged crystal, 
and above it a pale ceiba-tree rose almost to the 
clouds. The waving cocoanut palms on the beach 
flared their decorative green leaves against the slate 
of an almost quiescent sea. His senses were cognizant 
of brilliant scarlets and ochres amid the vert of the 
coppice, of odours of fruit and bloom and the smoke 
from Chanca s clay oven under the calabash-tree; 
of the treble laughter of the native women in their 
huts, the song of the robin, the salt taste of the breeze, 
the diminuendo of the faint surf running along the 
shore and, gradually, of a white speck, growing to 
a blur, that intruded itself upon the drab prospect of 
the sea. 

Lazily interested, he watched this blur increase 
until it became the Idalia steaming at full speed, 
coming down the coast. Without changing his posi 
tion he kept his eyes upon the beautiful white yacht 
as she drew swiftly near, and came opposite to Co- 
ralio. Then, sitting upright, he saw her float stead 
ily past and on. Scarcely a mile of sea had separated 



The Lotus and the Bottle 39 

her from the shore. He had seen the frequent flash of 
her polished brass work and the stripes of her deck- 
awnings so much, and no more. Like a ship on 
a magic lantern slide the Idalia had crossed the illu 
minated circle of the consul s little world, and was 
gone. Save for the tiny cloud of smoke that was left 
hanging over the brim of the sea, she might have 
been an immaterial thing, a chimera of his idle brain. 

Geddie went into his office and sat down to dawdle 
over his report. If the reading of the article in the 
paper had left him unshaken, this silent passing of 
the Idalia had done for him still more. It had 
brought the calm and peace of a situation from which 
all uncertainty had been erased. He knew that men 
sometimes hope without being aware of it. Now, 
since she had come two thousand miles and had 
passed without a sign, not even his unconscious self 
need cling to the past any longer. 

After dinner, when the sun was low behind the 
mountains, Geddie walked on the little strip of beach 
under the cocoanuts. The wind was blowing mildly 
landward, and the surface of the sea was rippled by 
tiny wavelets. 



A 
40 Cabbages and Kings 

A miniature breaker, spreading with a soft "swish " 
upon the sand brought with it something round and 
shiny that rolled back again as the wave receded. 
The next influx beached it clear, and Geddie picked 
it up. The thing was a long-necked wine bottle of 
colourless glass. The cork had been driven in tight 
ly to the level of the mouth, and the end covered with 
dark-red sealing-wax. The bottle contained only 
what seemed to be a sheet of paper, much curled 
from the manipulation it had undergone while being 
inserted. In the sealing-wax was the impression of 
a seal probably of a signet-ring, bearing the initials 
of a monogram ; but the impression had been hastily 
made, and the letters were past anything more cer 
tain than a shrewd conjecture. Ida Payne had 
always worn a signet-ring in preference to any 
other finger decoration. Geddie thought he could 
make out the familiar "I P"; and a queer sen 
sation of disquietude went over him. More person 
al and intimate was this reminder of her than had 
been the sight of the vessel she was doubtless on. 
He walked back to his house, and set the bcfljle on 
his desk. 



The Lotus and the Bottle 41 

Throwing off his hat and coat, and lighting a lamp 
for the night had crowded precipitately upon the 
brief twilight he began to examine his piece of sea 
salvage. 

By holding the bottle near the light and turning it 
judiciously, he made out that it contained a double 
sheet of note-paper filled with close writing; further, 
that the paper was of the same size and shade as that 
always used by Ida; and that, to the best of his be 
lief, the handwriting was hers. The imperfect glass 
of the bottle so distorted the rays of light that he could 
read no word of the writing; but certain capital let 
ters, of which he caught comprehensive glimpses, were 
Ida s, he felt sure. 

There was a little smile both of perplexity and 
amusement in Geddie s eyes as he set the bottle down, 
and laid three cigars side by side on his desk. He 
fetched his steamer chair from the gallery, and 
stretched himself comfortably. He would smoke 
those three cigars while considering the problem. 

For it amounted to a problem. He almost wished 
that he had not found the bottle; but the bottle was 
there. Why should it have drifted in from the sea, 



42 Cabbages and Kings 

whence come so many disquieting things, to disturb 

his peace ? 

In this dreamy land, where time seemed so redund 
ant, he had fallen into the habit of bestowing much 
thought upon even trifling matters. 

He began to speculate upon many fanciful theo 
ries concerning the story of the bottle, rejecting each 
in turn. 

Ships in danger of wreck or disablement some 
times cast forth such precarious messengers calling 
for aid. But he had seen the Idalia not three hours 
before, safe and speeding. Suppose the crew had 
mutinied and imprisoned the passengers below, and 
the message was one begging for succour! But, 
premising such an improbable outrage, would the 
agitated captives have taken the pains to fill four 
pages of note-paper with carefully penned arguments 
to their rescue. 

Thus by elimination he soon rid the matter of the 
more unlikely theories, and was reduced though 
aversely to the less assailable one that the bottle 
contained a message to himself. Ida knew he was 
in Corah o; she must have launched the bottle while 



The Lotus and the Bottle 43 

the yacht was passing and the wind blowing fairly 
toward the shore. 

As soon as Geddie reached this conclusion a wrin 
kle came between his brows and a stubborn look set 
tled around his mouth. He sat looking out through 
the doorway at the gigantic fire-flies traversing the 
quiet streets. 

If this was a message to him from Ida, what could 
it mean save an overture toward a reconciliation? 
And if that, why had she not used the same methods 
of the post instead of this uncertain and even flippant 
means of communication ? A note in an empty bot 
tle, cast into the sea ! There was something light and 
frivolous about it, if not actually contemptuous. 

The thought stirred his pride and subdued what 
ever emotions had been resurrected by the rinding of 
the bottle. 

Geddie put on his coat and hat and walked out. He 
followed a street that led him along the border of the 
little plaza where a band was playing and people were 
rambling, care-free and indolent. Some timorous 
senoritas scurrying past with fire-flies tangled in the 
jetty braids of their hair glanced at him with shy, flat- 



44 Cabbages and Kings 

tering eyes. The air was languorous with the scent of 

jasmin and orange-blossoms. 

The consul stayed his steps at the house of Bernard 
Brannigan. Paula was swinging in a hammock on 
the gallery. She rose from it like a bird from its nest, 
The colour came to her cheek at the sound of Ged- 
die s voice. 

He was charmed at the sight of her costume a 
flounced muslin dress, with a little jacket of white 
flannel, all made with neatness and style. He sug 
gested a stroll, and they walked out to the old Indian 
well on the hill road. They sat on the curb, and 
there Geddie made the expected but long-deferred 
speech. Certain though he had been that she would 
not say him nay, he was thrilled with joy at the com 
pleteness and sweetness of her surrender. Here was 
surely a heart made for love and steadfastness. Here 
was no caprice or questionings or captious stand 
ards of convention. 

When Geddie kissed Paula at her door that night 
he was happier than he had ever been before. " Here 
in this hollow lotus land, ever to live and lie reclined" 
seemed to him, as it has seemed to many mariners, the 



The Lotus and the Bottle 45 

best as well as the easiest. His future would be an 
ideal one. He had attained a Paradise without a ser 
pent. His Eve would be indeed a part of him, unbe- 
guiled, and therefore more beguiling. He had made 
his decision to-night, and his heart was full of serene, 
assured content. 

Geddie went back to his house whistling that finest 
and saddest love song, " La Golondrina. " At the 
door his tame monkey leaped down from his shelf, 
chattering briskly. The consul turned to his desk to 
get him some nuts he usually kept there. Reaching 
in the half -darkness, his hand struck against the bot 
tle. He started as if he had touched the cold rotund 
ity of a serpent. 

He had forgotten that the bottle was there. 

He lighted the lamp and fed the monkey. Then, 
very deliberately, he lighted a cigar, and took the bottle 
in his hand, and walked down the path to the beach. 

There was a moon, and the sea was glorious. The 
breeze had shifted, as it did each evening, and was 
now rushing steadily seaward. 

Stepping to the water s edge, Geddie hurled the un 
opened bottle far out into the sea. It disappeared for 



46 Cabbages and Kings 

a moment, and then shot upward twice its length. 
Geddie stood still, watching it. The moonlight was 
so bright that he could see it bobbing up and down 
with the little waves. Slowly it receded from the 
shore, flashing and turning as it went. The wind was 
carrying it out to sea. Soon it became a mere speck, 
doubtfully discerned at irregular intervals ; and then 
the mystery of it was swallowed up by the greater 
mystery of the ocean. Geddie stood still upon the 
beach, smoking and looking out upon the water. 

" Simon ! Oh, Simon ! wake up there, Simon ! " 
bawled a sonorous voice at the edge of the water. 

Old Simon Cruz was a half-breed fisherman and 
smuggler who lived in a hut on the beach. Out of 
his earliest nap Simon was thus awakened. 

He slipped on his shoes and went outside. Just 
landing from one of the Valhalla 9 s boats was the third 
mate of that vessel, who was an acquaintance of Si 
mon s, and three sailors from the fruiter. 

" Go up, Simon, " called the mate, " and find Dr. 
Gregg or Mr. Goodwin or anybody that s a friend to 
Mr. Geddie, and bring em here at once. " 



The Lotus and the Bottle 47 

" Saints of the skies ! " said Simon, sleepily, " noth 
ing has happened to Mr. Geddie ? " 

" He s under that tarpauling, "said the mate, point 
ing to the boat, "and he s rather more than half 
drownded. We seen him from the steamer nearly a 
mile out from shore, swimmin like mad after a bottle 
that was floatin in the water, outward bound. We 
lowered the gig and started for him. He nearly had 
his hand on the bottle, when he gave out and went 
under. We pulled him out in time to save him, 
maybe; but the doctor is the one to decide that. " 

"A bottle?" said the old man, rubbing his eyes. 
He was not yet fully awake. " Where is the bottle ?" 

" Driftin along out there some eres," said the mate, 
jerking his thumb toward the sea. " Get on with you, 
Simon." 



CHAPTER THREE 

Smith 



GrOODWIN and the ardent patriot, Zavalla, took 
all the precautions that their foresight could contrive 
to prevent the escape of President Miraflores and his 
companion. They sent trusted messengers up the 
coast to Solitas and Alazan to warn the local leaders 
of the flight, and to instruct them to patrol the water 
line and arrest the fugitives at all hazards should 
they reveal themselves in that territory. After this 
was done there remained only to cover the district 
about Coralio and await the coming of the quarry. 
The nets were well spread. The roads were so few, 
the opportunities for embarkation so limited, and the 
two or three probable points of exit so well guarded 
that it would be strange indeed if there should slip 



Smith 49 

through the meshes so much of the country s dignity, 
romance, and collateral. The president would, with 
out doubt, move as secretly as possible, and en 
deavour to board a vessel by stealth from some 
secluded point along the shore. 

On the fourth day after the receipt of Englehart s 
telegram the Karlsefin, a Norwegian steamer char 
tered by the New Orleans fruit trade, anchored off 
Coralio with three hoarse toots of her siren. The 
Karlsefin was not one of the line operated by the 
Vesuvius Fruit Company. She was something of a 
dilettante, doing odd jobs for a company that was 
scarcely important enough to figure as a rival to the 
Vesuvius. The movements of the Karlsefin were 
dependent upon the state of the market. Sometimes 
she would ply steadily between the Spanish Main 
and New Orleans in the regular transport of fruit; 
next she would be making erratic trips to Mobile 
or Charleston, or even as far north as New York, 
according to the distribution of the fruit supply. 

Goodwin lounged upon the beach with the usual 
crowd of idlers that had gathered to view the steamer. 
Now that President Miraflores might be expected to 



50 Cabbages and Kings 

reach the borders of his abjured country at any time, 
the orders were to keep a strict and unrelenting watch. 
Every vessel that approached the shores might now be 
considered a possible means of escape for the fugi 
tives; and an eye was kept even on the sloops and 
dories that belonged to the sea-going contingent of 
Coralio. Goodwin and Zavalla moved everywhere, 
but without ostentation, watching the loopholes of 
escape. 

The customs officials crowded importantly into 
their boat and rowed out to the Karlsefin. A boat 
from the steamer landed her purser with his papers, 
and took out the quarantine doctor with his green 
umbrella and clinical thermometer. Next a swarm 
of Caribs began to load upon lighters the thousands 
of bunches of bananas heaped upon the shore and 
row them out to the steamer. The Karlsefin had no 
passenger list, and was soon done with the attention 
of the authorities. The purser declared that the 
steamer would remain at anchor until morning, tak 
ing on her fruit during the night. The Karlsefin had 
come, he said, from New York, to which port her 
latest load of oranges and cocoanuts had been con- 



Smith 51 

veyed. Two or three of the freighter sloops were 
engaged to assist in the work, for the captain was 
anxious to make a quick return in order to reap the 
advantage offered by a certain dearth of fruit in the 
States. 

About four o clock in the afternoon another of 
those marine monsters, not very familiar in those 
waters, hove in sight, following the fateful Idalia a 
graceful steam yacht, painted a light buff, clean-cut 
as a steel engraving. The beautiful vessel hovered 
off shore, see-sawing the waves as lightly as a duck 
in a rain barrel. A swift boat manned by a crew 
in uniform came ashore, and a stocky-built man 
leaped to the sands. 

The new-comer seemed to turn a disapproving 
eye upon the rather motley congregation of native 
Anchurians, and made his way at once toward Good 
win, who was the most conspicuously Anglo-Saxon 
figure present. Goodwin greeted him with courtesy. 

Conversation developed that the newly landed one 
was named Smith, and that he had come in a yacht. 
A meagre biography, truly; for the yacht was most 
apparent; and the "Smith" not beyond a reasonable 



52 Cabbages and Kings 

guess before the revelation. Yet to the eye of Good 
win, who had seen several things, there was a dis 
crepancy between Smith and his yacht. A bullet- 
headed man Smith was, with an oblique, dead eye 
and the moustache of a cocktail-mixer. And unless 
he had shifted costumes before putting off for shore 
he had affronted the deck of his correct vessel clad 
in a pearl-gray derby, a gay plaid suit and vaudeville 
neckwear. Men owning pleasure yachts generally 
harmonize better with them. 

Smith looked business, but he was no advertiser. 
He commented upon the scenery, remarking upon its 
fidelity to the pictures in the geography; and then in 
quired for the United States consul. Goodwin 
pointed out the starred-and-striped bunting hanging 
above the little consulate, which was concealed be 
hind the orange-trees. 

" Mr. Geddie, the consul, will be sure to be there," 
said Goodwin. " He was very nearly drowned a few 
days ago while taking a swim in the sea, and the 
doctor has ordered him to remain indoors for some 
time." 

Smith plowed his way through the sand to the con- 



Smith 53 

sulate, his haberdashery creating violent discord 
against the smooth tropical blues and greens. 

Geddie was lounging in his hammock, somewhat 
pale of face and languid in pose. On that night 
when the Valhalla s boat had brought him ashore 
apparently drenched to death by the sea, Doctor 
Gregg and his other friends had toiled for hours to 
preserve the little spark of life that remained to him. 
The bottle, with its impotent message, was gone out 
to sea, and the problem that it had provoked was 
reduced to a simple sum in addition one and one 
make two, by the rule of arithmetic; one by the 
rule of romance. 

There is a quaint old theory that man may have 
two souls a peripheral one which serves ordinarily, 
and a central one which is stirred only at certain 
times, but then with activity and vigour. While under 
the domination of the former a man will shave, vote, 
pay taxes, give money to his family, buy subscription 
books and comport himself on the average plan. But 
let the central soul suddenly become dominant, and 
he may, in the twinkling of an eye, turn upon the part 
ner of his joys with furious execration ; he may change 



54 Cabbages and Kings 

his politics while you could snap your fingers; he 
may deal out deadly insult to his dearest friend; he 
may get him, instanter, to a monastery or a dance 
hall; he may elope, or hang himself or he may 
write a song or poem, or kiss his wife unasked, or give 
his funds to the search of a microbe. Then the pe 
ripheral soul will return; and we have our safe, sane 
citizen again. It is but the revolt of the Ego against 
Order; and its effect is to shake up the atoms only 
that they may settle where they belong. 

Geddie s revulsion had been a mild one no 
more than a swim in a summer sea after so inglorious 
an object as a drifting bottle. And now he was him 
self again. Upon his desk, ready for the post, was a 
letter to his government tendering his resignation as 
consul, to be effective as soon as another could be 
appointed in his place. For Bernard Bran- 
nigan, who never did things in a half-way man 
ner, was to take Geddie at once for a partner in 
his very profitable and various enterprises; and 
Paula was happily engaged in plans for refurnish 
ing and decorating the upper story of the Brannigan 
house. 



Smith 55 

The consul rose from his hammock when he saw 
the conspicuous stranger in his door. 

"Keep your seat old man," said the visitor, with 
an airy wave of his large hand. " My name s Smith; 
and I ve come in a yacht. You are the consul is 
that right? A big, cool guy on the beach directed 
me here. Thought I d pay my respects to the flag." 

"Sit down," said Geddie. "I ve been admiring 
your craft ever since it came in sight. Looks like a 
fast sailer. What s her tonnage ? " 

"Search me!" said Smith. "I don t know what 
she weighs in at. But she s got a tidy gait. The 
Rambler that s her name don t take the dust 
of anything afloat. This is my first trip on her. 
I m taking a squint along this coast just to get 
an idea of the countries where the rubber and red 
pepper and revolutions come from. I had no 
idea there was so much scenery down here. Why, 
Central Park ain t in it with this neck of the 
woods. I m from New York. They get monkeys, 
and cocoanuts, and parrots down here is that 
right?" 

"We have them all," said Geddie. "I m quite 



56 Cabbages and Kings 

sure that our fauna and flora would take a prize over 

Central Park." 

" Maybe they would," admitted Smith, cheerfully. 
"I haven t seen them yet. But I guess you ve got 
us skinned on the animal and vegetation question. 
You don t have much travel here, do you ? " 

" Travel ?" queried the consul. " I suppose you 
mean passengers on the steamers. No; very few 
people land in Coralio. An investor now and then 
tourists and sight-seers generally go further down the 
coast to one of the larger towns where there is a har 
bour. " 

" I see a ship out there loading up with bananas," 
said Smith. " Any passengers come on her ? " 

"That s the Karlsefin" said the consul. "She s 
a tramp fruiter made her last trip to New York, 
I believe. No; she brought no passengers. I saw 
her boat come ashore, and there was no one. About 
the only exciting recreation we have here is watching 
steamers when they arrive; and a passenger on one of 
them generally causes the whole town to turn out. 
If you are going to remain in Coralio a while, Mr. 
Smith, I ll be glad to take you around to meet some 



Smith 57 

people. There are four or five American chaps that 
are good to know, besides the native high-fliers." 

"Thanks," said the yachtsman, "but I wouldn t 
put you to the trouble. I d like to meet the guys you 
speak of, but I won t be here long enough to do much 
knocking around. That cool gent on the beach 
spoke of a doctor; can you tell me where I could find 
him? The Rambler ain t quite as steady on her 
feet as a Broadway hotel; and a fellow gets a touch 
of seasickness now and then. Thought I d strike 
the croaker for a handful of the little sugar pills, in 
case I need em." 

"You will be apt to find Dr. Gregg at the hotel," 
said the consul, " You can see it from the door 
it s that two-story building with the balcony, where 
the orange-trees are." 

The Hotel de los Estranjeros was a dreary hostelry, 
in great disuse both by strangers and friends. It 
stood at a corner of the Street of the Holy Sepul 
chre. A grove of small orange-trees crowded against 
one side of it, enclosed by a low, rock wall over which 
a tall man might easily step. The house was of 
plastered adobe, stained a hundred shades of colour 



58 Cabbages and Kings 

by the salt breeze and the sun. Upon its upper bal 
cony opened a central door and two windows con 
taining broad jalousies instead of sashes. 

The lower floor communicated by two doorways 
with the narrow, rock-paved sidewalk. The pul- 
peria or drinking shop of the proprietress, Ma- 
dama Timotea Ortiz, occupied the ground floor. On 
the bottles of brandy, anisada, Scotch " smoke " and 
inexpensive wines behind the little counter the dust 
lay thick save where the fingers of infrequent cus 
tomers had left irregular prints. The upper story 
contained four or five guest-rooms which were rarely 
put to their destined use. Sometimes a fruit-grower, 
riding in from his plantation to confer with his agent, 
would pass a melancholy night in the dismal upper 
story; sometimes a minor native official on some 
trifling government quest would have his pomp and 
majesty awed by Madama s sepulchral hospitality. 
But Madama sat behind her bar content, not desir 
ing to quarrel with Fate. If anyone required meat, 
drink or lodging at the Hotel de los Estranjeros they 
had but to come, and be served. Estd bueno. If 
they came not, why, then, they came not. Estd bueno. 



Smith 59 

As the exceptional yachtsman was making his way 
down the precarious sidewalk of the Street of the Holy 
Sepulchre, the solitary permanent guest of that decay 
ing hotel sat at its door, enjoying the breeze from the 
sea. 

Dr. Gregg, the quarantine physician, was a man 
of fifty or sixty, with a florid face and the longest 
beard between Topeka and Terra del Fuego. He 
held his position by virtue of an appointment by the 
Board of Health of a seaport city in one of the South 
ern states. That city feared the ancient enemy of 
every Southern seaport the yellow fever and it 
was the duty of Dr. Gregg to examine crew and pas 
sengers of every vessel leaving Coralio for prelim 
inary symptoms. The duties were light, and the 
salary, for one who lived in Coralio, ample. Surplus 
time there was in plenty; and the good doctor added 
to his gains by a large private practice among the 
residents of the coast. The fact that he did not 
know ten words of Spanish was no obstacle; a pulse 
could be felt and a fee collected without one being 
a linguist. Add to the description the facts that the 
doctor had a story to tell concerning the operation 



60 Cabbages and Kings 

of trepanning which no listener had ever allowed him 
to conclude, and that he believed in brandy as a pro 
phylactic; and the special points of interest possessed 
by Dr. Gregg will have become exhausted. 

The doctor had dragged a chair to the sidewalk. 
He was coatless, and he leaned back against the wall 
and smoked, while he stroked his beard. Surprise 
came into his pale blue eyes when he caught sight 
of Smith in his unusual and prismatic clothes. 

" You re Dr. Gregg is that right ? " said Smith, 
feeling the dog s head pin in his tie. " The constable 
I mean the consul, told me you hung out at this 
caravansary. My name s Smith; and I came in a 
yacht. Taking a cruise around, looking at the mon 
keys and pineapple-trees. Come inside and have a 
drink, Doc. This cafe looks on the blink, but I 
guess it can set out something wet." 

"I will join you, sir, in just a taste of brandy," 
said Dr. Gregg, rising quickly. "I find that as a 
prophylactic a little brandy is almost a necessity in 
this climate." 

As they turned to enter the pulperia a native man, 
barefoot, glided noiselessly up and addressed the 



Smith 61 

doctor in Spanish. He was yellowish-brown, like 
an over-ripe lemon; he wore a cotton shirt and rag 
ged linen trousers girded by a leather belt. His face 
was like an animal s, live and wary, but without 
promise of much intelligence. This man jabbered 
with animation and so much seriousness that it 
seemed a pity that his words were to be wasted. 

Dr. Gregg felt his pulse. 

" You sick ? " he inquired. 

" Mi mujer estd enferma en la casa" said the man, 
thus endeavouring to convey the news, in the only 
language open to him, that his wife lay ill in her palm- 
thatched hut. 

The doctor drew a handful of capsules filled with 
a white powder from his trousers pocket. He 
counted out ten of them into the native s hand, and 
held up his forefinger impressively. 

"Take one," said the doctor, "every two hours." 
He then held up two fingers, shaking them emphati 
cally before the native s face. Next he pulled out 
his watch and ran his finger round its dial twice. 
Again the two fingers confronted the patient s nose. 
" Two two two hours," repeated the doctor. 



62 Cabbages and Kings 

" Si, Sefior" said the native, sadly. 

He pulled a cheap silver watch from his own pocket 
and laid it in the doctor s hand. " Me bring," said 
he, struggling painfully with his scant English, " other 
watchy to-morrow." Then he departed down-heart- 
edly with his capsules. 

"A very ignorant race of people, sir," said the 
doctor, as he slipped the watch into his pocket. 
"He seems to have mistaken my directions for 
taking the physic for the fee. However, i